>> Estelle Weyl: I wanna talk
about relational selectors and
combinators.
>> Estelle Weyl: So,
as previously mentioned,
there is the descendant selector.
It's the combinator of a space.
So here it says ul li, so
it matches every list item
that it is a descendant
of an unordered list.
So here, on the right-hand side,
we have ordered list, and
nested within that,
we have an unordered list.
If I say ol li it matches everything.
And so I actually added some opacity and
you'll see that A B and
C were kind of matched twice.
Because, the li,
that is a descendant of the unordered
list is also a descendant
of the ordered list.
But the ones that are just a descendant of
the ordered list only match the first one.
So basically it got the color
twice.
>> Estelle Weyl: It
got the color twice from just that.
Because it is both a child and
a grandchild.
Here, if I click on ol
greater-than sign li,
that means, just the list items that
are a child of the ordered list.
So why is a, b, and c gray?
>> Estelle Weyl: Because
it actually is nested within a gray
parent, which is the parent li.
So that parent li has been
targeted as being gray, and so
the whole thing has
a background of being gray.
It's not those individual items
that then were also targeted.
Then there's the adjacent
siblings selector.
So number 4 has a class of hasaclass,
I should come up with better names.
So this selector right here says find
the li that comes immediately after,
basically having the same parent.
It's nested in the same parent.
It comes immediately after
an li that has a class.
That's considered the adjacent
sibling selector.
So let me see if I can get rid of this.
No, I can't.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay.
I have a small problem which is the last
one is not visible and it has tilde.
So instead of the plus
right here it has a tilde.
The tilde is the general sibling selector.
So, the general sibling selector,
which was new in IE7,
so it's not new anymore,
targets the element.
So if it said li.hasaclass till the li,
it,
it means match any li that comes after,
not immediately after,
but just generally after
an ally that has a class.
So here, number 4 has a class, and
5, 6 and 7 are general siblings.
They're not the adjacent sibling, which
is the plus sign, they are the tilde,
which is the general sibling.
>> Estelle Weyl: Just so
you know how I actually did that
JavaScript, I used the selectors API.
And I basically, the reason I'm pointing
this out is, in JavaScript you can
see querySelector and querySelectorAll.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
target, you can put any css
select that we cover today
can put in there and target that element.
The first one comes back
with just the first element.
The second one which is querySelectorAll
comes back with all of the element.
And then you could do something..
You see,
this is a little bit more complex.
It says, find me all the elements
that had the class of foo,
that are descendant of bar.
And you can actually get
much complex than this.
You can put,
>> Estelle Weyl: Any descendent of
bar that also has a type attribute.
So you can put anything in there and
you can use JavaScript to define
those elements if you need to.
And so I basically used the selectors
API with the class list,
which is a feature in JavaScript as well,
to add and remove classes.
And that's how I did the JavaScript
that selected those.
So I want you to think about the fact
that you can add and remove classes and
have query selector and
querySelectorAll in your JS and
add move classList and target elements.